---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2 - Mont-Dore"
date:   2023-08-25 21:10:18 +0100
---

Start point: Vernines  
Destination: Mont-Dore  

---
<br>

When I get up at 7 a.m., the sky is almost black.
Not that the sun hasn't risen yet, but it's obstructed by heavy stormy clouds.
Last night, the weather forecast called for thunderstorms through the night and into the morning.
I could believe that there would be storms during the night, but in the morning, that was harder to accept.
The storms are now forecast to last until 11 am.
Although it's not raining at the moment, the color of the clouds is very threatening.
And that characteristic wind that always accompanies thunderstorms is blowing without restraint, announcing the coming storm.

During breakfast, I have a look at my alternatives.
There is a bus to the town of Mont-Dore, where I'm supposed to spend the night.
It runs 3 times a day, from a village 10 km from here.
It's not on the way at all.
And it's a 3-hour walk.
But it's still better than taking the risk of being struck by lightning while walking in the open, on peaks and ridges.  
During these moments of hesitation, a couple of lightning bolts flash through the sky.
They validate my decision to take the bus today.

This plan B also allows me to check whether I'm still up for a few kilometers of walking after this devastating first day, or whether I should really abandon my journey.
When I woke up, I still felt my legs and shoulders a little, but not that much.

Before I leave, I decide to thank my temporary neighbors once again for the kindness they showed me last night by offering me tomatoes which, by the way, were extremely good.
When I tell them that I'm leaving on foot, they immediately offer to drop me off at the bus stop.
I'm relieved that they proposed, and gladly accept.
To be honest, I probably would have asked them if they hadn't offered. 
This means that this will be a completely walk-free day.

Between the car that drops me off in Rochefort-Montagne, and the bus that takes me to Mont-Dore, today's trip is very short.
I arrive in Mont-Dore around 2:00 pm.
The afternoon is spent strolling around town, eating lunch in a restaurant and reading a book (currently reading _Les 3 Mousquetaires_).

The hostel is located just outside town, where the ski resort is.
That's 3 km away, which means about 1 h of walking, only slightly uphill.
These few kilometers will be the only ones I walk today, but they confirm that I can walk even after yesterday.
My shoulders still feel the strain of carrying my backpack, but I don't feel my legs that much.

Optimistic once more, I'll try to complete tomorrow's hiking day.
